# thesis

Literature Review

- Moore, Jim, Jim Nelson, and Kanye West. Hunks & Heroes: Four Decades of fashion at GQ. New York: Rizzoli International, 2019. 
- Lavergne, Michael. Fixing fashion: Rethinking the way we make, market and buy our clothes. Gabriola Island, BC, Canada: New Society Publishers, 2015.
- Hethron, Janet, and Connie Ulasewicz. Sustainable Fashion: What's Next? A Conversation about Issues, Practices and Possibilities. New York: Fairchild Books, 2015.
- Balsiger, Philip. The Fight for Ethical Fashion: The Origins and Interactions of the Clean Clothes Campgain. Ashgate Publishing. 2014.
- Berkes, Fikret, Johan Colding, and Carl Folke. Navigating social-ecological systems: Building Resilience for Complexity and Change. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003.
-  Balsiger, Philip. “Between Shaming Corporations and Promoting Alternatives: The Politics of an ‘Ethical Shopping Map.’” Journal of Consumer Culture 14, no. 2 (March 24, 2014): 218–35. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469540514526279. 

# Abstract
My thesis, Middleground: The Intersection Between Profitability & Ethics in the Fashion Industry, is an analysis and visualization of data from the fashion industry that poses the question: is there a middle ground where a clothing brand can be ethical and profitable? The project will analyze key subject points such as how a brand is developed, its methods of operations and ethical measures, and what consumers expect from brands ethically. Based on these subject points, I will be analyzing data such as brands’ financial reports, fashion sustainability indexes, and public opinion regarding brands’ ethical measures. With this data, I plan to create visualizations that reflect the perspective of the brand and the customer, to push for better understanding of both sides; the visualizations will include dashboards of real-life consequences of ethical measures put in place and interactive decision-based visualizations that allow the user to test these measures.

The data will be a mix of hand-collected through surveys and interviews, as well as news articles to feed the interactive dashboard, and company reports to assess operational processes of a brand and build the decision-based visualizations. 

The idea for this concept came from three main factors: my interest and professional involvement within the fashion industry, the drastic change in recent years of what is deemed profitable within the industry, and the constant backlash from consumers regarding ethical practices. I believe at this time, what is needed the most when facing this problem is introspection from both the consumer and the brand, so that consumers better appreciate what it means to develop and manage a brand (operations wise); and, so nouveau-entrepreneurs in the industry can learn from consumers’ wants and needs, and find a compromise when building their brand. 

# Introduction
This project is a data visualization of how profitability and ethics intersect in the development and operation of a clothing brand. Currently, the fashion industry is being scrutinized for poor labor conditions, detrimental impacts on the environment, and without the product quality to back these operations; however, we see these products continue to rise in price. This begs to question if profitability and ethical operations can co-exist within the industry, yet my goal is to answer that question with this exploration of both company and public data. As an active member of the fashion industry (professionally and recreationally), I was inspired to pursue this as my master’s thesis by doing some introspection of my own as a consumer and what I desire from a brand ethically, as well as a professional who has experience with brand operations. I realized that there is a block in communication between these two, and that it is necessary for there to be a compromise in order for the industry to flourish. The project will follow the narrative that both brands and the public are putting out in order to see where these two can coincide. This is not meant to tell brands or the public how they can better themselves, but suggest how they can better connect by presenting the data that exists –the facts. The point is for the audience (whether it is a brand leader or customer) to do some introspection and make better choices based on their reflection. 

While this problem has expanded and been a main topic of conversation in recent years, this collision between the public’s uproar and the industry’s exploitation of resources has been a long time coming. In the last 60 years, social consciousness and human rights movements have contributed to the pressure put on brands to operate in a more ethical manner. However, in the last 30 years, the globalization of fast fashion has severely impacted the way a consumer shops and has shifted the benchmark for how brands operate. The data that will mainly contribute to this research will include financial reports from brands in order to assess their earnings and operations, the ethical reports from organizations such as the Fair Labor Association (FLA) in order to understand the laws that bind these organizations, and the public’s perception through news reports and popular media content targeting these brands. 

My method will include three distinct perspectives that will come together to form my resulting suggestions: 
The brand. While I will go a short and general overview of the different sectors of the fashion industry, I will mainly focus on smaller brands with large customer bases, as these are brands that provide for a large number of people yet are still at a scale where they can implement swift changes to their business model in order to improve their ethical operations. 
The consumer. I intend to explore the opinion-based data from the consumer in order to reflect what they truly want from brands when it comes to their product and operations, this will help define what brands should prioritize when implementing changes. 
My perspective. Based on the data I find from the first two perspectives, I will make a careful analysis and develop the suggestions I believe are the best measures for brands to take in order to improve their production. 
